# Optimal-Raisin-Classification-Analysis
Made from dried grapes, raisins are one of the most popular fruit snacks in the world due to their nutritional values being rich in antioxidants, fiber and more (Kenellos et. al 2017). There are over 1200 varieties of raisins that originated and are grown in Turkey, and it has been difficult to distinguish the varieties as black raisins look similar in their sizes, colour and texture. Recent research has developed various classification methods to determine the exact raisin variety based on processed images under controlled studies (Starke and Atalaysun 2015). This dataset is based on research by Çinar et al., where they developed a machine vision system to differentiate between Kecimen and Besni varieties from a total of 900 raisins (2020). Our project makes use of this raisin dataset to develop a classification model based on the K-nearest neighbors classification algorithm. Each data point includes measurements of seven morphological features: area (number of pixels taken up by the raisin), perimeter, long axis length, short axis length, eccentricity (how elliptical the raisin is), convex area (number of pixels on the smallest convex shell of the raisin), and the extent (ratio of convex area to area). Our question is: What is the most accurate combination of three morphological variables for predicting whether a raisin is of the Besni or Kecimen varieties? And what is the estimated accuracy of this combination? To build our classification model, a section of this dataset will retain its class variable and will be used as training data, while another section will have its class variable removed and the algorithm will be used to predict its raisin varieties. These predictions will then be compared to the original class variables to determine a success rate. Based on the comparison, we will pick three of the predictors that yield the highest estimated accuracy to make our classification model reliable.

Note: This group project was contributed by Wanqing Hu, Anders Mirabee, Ivan To and Queenie Wu, and was finished in December 2022. The original repository can be accessed at https://github.com/ivanhcto/group-71-project/tree/main. Expired links have been replaced with valid ones to ensure the code run properly.